---
layout: post
title:  "#mkspipe [Google Apps Script, JavaScript]"
date:   2014-11-14 21:23:29
categories: portfolio
cover_photo_url: /images/mkspipe.png
---

# Project links

(Private app, demo can be arranged)

# A dashboard for the MakerSquare application pool

As applicants at the MakerSquare code school started to ramp up, it became important to track quantity of applicants and be able to spot trends.

We all got an email when someone applied but nobody saw the week-to-week data.

I created this app and its mailer script to graph the data week-per-week and display it on an interactive graph. It also was mailed to our admissions team and founders every week. It is built in Google Apps Scripts.


# What's Google Apps Scripts?

Google has a scripting interface called Google Apps Scripts. It's extremely powerful. In addition to controlling any Google service like Gmail, Sheets and Docs, it can do everything JavaScript does. It can even communicate with a REST API so you can pull in data from an external source.

# How it works

When run, the code in Google Apps Scripts loads all the data from our application input tool Typeform. Google Apps Scripts interacts with Typeform's REST API to get this data.

Google has code that you can use that creates interactive charts if you feed it data in a certain way. I parsed the data to calculate week-by-week totals for application data and fed it to the Google chart.

This script runs every week but also exists as a Google Apps Script Web Application which allows anyone with permission to view the site and see current information on request.