---
layout: post
title:  "Amazon purchases of great significance"
date:   2015-12-03 10:18:00
categories: 
published: true
description: "Gifting season is here. Here are the highlights of my Amazon hauls over the past few years."
image: ''
---
Gifting season is here and a great opportunity to reflect on the highlight-reel of my Amazon hauls over the past few years. Perhaps you will be inspired.

## Hold my phone ... and the one I buy after that

The universal car mount is a beautiful thing and it's not just for Uber drivers. This thing is so damn cheap and has fit my phones as I change them since the design isn't phone-specific. In addition, often times a friend hands you their phone to use for navigation so it fits theirs too. It's really a beautiful thing, and safer to do navigation with.


## Skip the paper towels (and drying rack)

So real talk, I didn't think kitchen towels could be absorbent. Even if I was cleaning up water, if it REALLY had to be dry I'd opt for the paper towel every time. Dish towels are cute for looking like you're saving the world. When it really comes down to getting something dry, there is just nothing like those conflict rags with the burly lumberjack smiling approvingly of your leaving nothing of this Earth for your grandchildren.

I was totally wrong. 

I almost woke the neighbors in my giddy excitement drying my first pan with this towel. It left no water behind at all. I went over to Charlotte and had her stop what she was doing to witness this towel in action. It was a show stopper and the reviews will give you the same story.

An unexpected benefit was being able to dry my hands much more quickly and completely. I found myself avoiding rinsing random cooking stuff off my hands because I didn't want to deal with drying my hands afterwards. Now I can't wait to wash my hands so I can dry them and it was as if nothing happened. It's worth noting that one of these towels is in our bathroom now.

## Your own personal tea

Living in post-Teavana America means you're probably drinking tea loose leaf and through a glass teapot/cup. I'm a fan of this. Loose leaf tea is definitely better and steeping tea in glass vessels adds a whole dimension of romance and aesthetic to the experience. 

If you haven't tried it, it's very visually appealing and adds to a scene similarly to the way a nice plant being used as a focal point does.

<blockquote class="instagram-media" data-instgrm-captioned data-instgrm-version="6" style=" background:#FFF; border:0; border-radius:3px; box-shadow:0 0 1px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.5),0 1px 10px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.15); margin: 1px; max-width:658px; padding:0; width:99.375%; width:-webkit-calc(100% - 2px); width:calc(100% - 2px);"><div style="padding:8px;"> <div style=" background:#F8F8F8; line-height:0; margin-top:40px; padding:50.0% 0; text-align:center; width:100%;"> <div style=" background:url(data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAACwAAAAsCAMAAAApWqozAAAAGFBMVEUiIiI9PT0eHh4gIB4hIBkcHBwcHBwcHBydr+JQAAAACHRSTlMABA4YHyQsM5jtaMwAAADfSURBVDjL7ZVBEgMhCAQBAf//42xcNbpAqakcM0ftUmFAAIBE81IqBJdS3lS6zs3bIpB9WED3YYXFPmHRfT8sgyrCP1x8uEUxLMzNWElFOYCV6mHWWwMzdPEKHlhLw7NWJqkHc4uIZphavDzA2JPzUDsBZziNae2S6owH8xPmX8G7zzgKEOPUoYHvGz1TBCxMkd3kwNVbU0gKHkx+iZILf77IofhrY1nYFnB/lQPb79drWOyJVa/DAvg9B/rLB4cC+Nqgdz/TvBbBnr6GBReqn/nRmDgaQEej7WhonozjF+Y2I/fZou/qAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC); display:block; height:44px; margin:0 auto -44px; position:relative; top:-22px; width:44px;"></div></div> <p style=" margin:8px 0 0 0; padding:0 4px;"> <a href="https://www.instagram.com/p/9C-_UFOCEQ/" style=" color:#000; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; font-style:normal; font-weight:normal; line-height:17px; text-decoration:none; word-wrap:break-word;" target="_blank">whole #chamomile #tea</a></p> <p style=" color:#c9c8cd; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; line-height:17px; margin-bottom:0; margin-top:8px; overflow:hidden; padding:8px 0 7px; text-align:center; text-overflow:ellipsis; white-space:nowrap;">A video posted by @alevee on <time style=" font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; line-height:17px;" datetime="2015-10-20T04:50:57+00:00">Oct 19, 2015 at 9:50pm PDT</time></p></div></blockquote>
<script async defer src="//platform.instagram.com/en_US/embeds.js"></script>

<br>

The old school way of brewing a tea using loose leaf tea was to use a tea bag or metal tea 'bomb' of sorts which wasn't very interesting. With this teapot, I not only get a cool look but I get to serve myself tea from my own personal teapot. I get the same sort of joy opening single-serving cups of water from a meal on a long-haul flight or using a single-serving shampoo at a hotel. It's fantastic.

## Bugs be like: 'meet me in the trap'

For some reason flies love my house. They don't hang around any particular place, they just fly around and either try to get out of my house or land on me. 

I knew I needed some sort of fly paper but what I found was better than I expected. Flies are always hanging by the window being like, 'alright man, joke's over, I wanna get out'

That's why these fly traps are brilliant. They stick to the window and don't interfere with the light coming in but if bugs so happen to land on the trap part of the window, which they inevitably do, that's a wrap...

They're insanely cheap too.

## Got 99 problems // modem rental fee ain’t one

I was late to this bandwagon and especially since my modem rental fee from Time Warner Cable was only about $4 / month it didn't seem like a big deal. However recently that rental fee has gone up to around $8 / month. Cable modems that suit your cable provider can be as cheap as $50 which at my new rental fee means a break-even within 6-7 months.

Time Warner Cable even tells you [which models work](http://www.timewarnercable.com/en/support/internet/topics/buy-your-modem.html) so you can shop yourself. Also, even though they don't 'support' them, they totally helped me get it going.

## Got 99 problems // a cheap router that messes up my home internet ain’t one

In my experience as a resident fix-it goober, I noticed that most people's internet woes weren't because of their modems but instead their routers. More and more we're putting loads of data and load on the really cheap hardware and atrocious software in today's consumer routers (often bundled with the modem). Nobody seems to care about quality because, hey, it's like a power strip for the internet right? I should buy the cheapest one out there right? Have fun with that.

Routers do a lot of work and have to juggle a lot of specifications that make wifi a wild west of specifications. Good software and good hardware to accompany are key to having smooth internet at home, especially if you have a lot of users on the router.

Fortunately, there is a silver bullet. It costs about $100 and you'll never have to think about your router again because it does its job and fades into the background. I can't remember ever having an issue with it. It's one of the necessary purchases for a home that you don't think you need but you should invest in.

## Got 99 problems // needing an outlet to charge my iPhone for a week+ ain’t one

We have clearly entered into a new era of phone charging and it's a complete paradigm shift. When I bring this phone charger, I rarely charge my phone from an outlet on any given vacation.

The mAh rating is what to look for. This one has 20000 mAh gives me about 9 days with normal iPhone 6 use. Heavy as hell though, watch out.

