---
layout: post
title:  "Never stress out about gifting again"
date:   2017-01-02 10:18:00
categories: 
published: true
description: "Many people feel that gifting is stressful or can't figure out good gifts to give, especially for the person who 'has everything'. If you feel this way, this short guide will help you overcome the struggle and provide better gifts for people you love."
image: '/assets/images/throwback-thursday/swag.jpg'
---

This guide comes from an obsession with gifting that has gone back many years. I suppose it's related to my obsession with technology. Both gifts and technology aim to make our lives better but gifting is a profound gesture. It shows that you think about a person and their needs even if they don't clearly understand their needs. This guide describes my process for getting through the holiday season gifting smoothly and allowing your most inspired gifts to shine through.

## Good / Better / Best

The best gift is what you're after for people you care most about and often requires some inspiration.

* Best - Inspired, flashy, sexy
* Better - Inspired, but not immediately recognized. These end up being great gifts but it takes some time to understand them. They might be boring on the surface, like premium underwear, but after a few weeks, you'll get a call acknowledging that this is a fantastic gift.
* Good - Useful, utilitarian, guaranteed to be used and improve that person's life, even if it's not flashy, sexy or provides a gushy response

* Bad - Not useful, not inspired by the needs of the recipient but of the giver. Trinkets that take up space and provide no value. Off-brand bargain bin items in TJ Maxx that nobody wants. Gifts that represent a superficial understanding of a deep passion of the recipient ('he likes hockey! here's a figurine doing a slapshot!').


## A Gifting Journal

You should be thinking about gifting all year. The most inspired gift ideas arrive at odd times of the year, often not near the holidays or your recipient's birthday. Particularly for close friends or family where you have to provide holiday and birthday gifts to. If you're not thinking of gifting all year, you'll be caught stressed out and carrying an uninspired gift.

I keep this in Evernote so I can update it from my phone. I have notes in it for every person and links to their Amazon wishlist.

## Holiday Gifting Spreadsheet

This is crucial for making sure nobody falls through the cracks. Copy it every year to remember everyone from last year. Update it with all the new people in your life.

Here are folks that are often forgotten: The people you'll be spending the holidays with. Your significant other's family, family's significant others, your boss, people you rely on around town, people you rely on professionally.

## Ideas for gifts

#### Person relies on something crappy, so gift them something better

I tell this to people who complain that it's hard to shop for men. I guarantee you that man has something of the following: crappy luggage, crappy sweater, crappy winter clothing, crappy headphones etc.

The advantage of this style of gift is that you know the person will use it because a crappy one sufficed and you've seen it in use. Chances are they don't know any better so with a very small amount of research, you can significantly improve that aspect of their life.

#### A new type of product or service that's probably off their radar

There are new startups that are providing new, improved, and cheaper ways of getting quality products and services.

Examples: 

Indochino - They make custom high quality shirts but many people will never benefit because they won't buy their first shirt or take their measurements.
Everlane - High quality online-only clothing retailer with fantastic prices. Limited selection makes buying easier.
Warby Parker - High quality prescription glasses that have an unusual mail-only format for trying on frames.

#### Ethereal pleasures, experiences, education

These gifts don't take up physical space but can have an awesome impact.

Massages - It's easy to find Groupons for Massages etc. I prefer to find someone highly rated locally.

Cooking classes - These are really fun, hands on, and practical. Often overlooked is the aspect of getting answers to your general cooking questions with a professional chef.

Other classes - There are many classes that can teach you glassblowing, gardening, electronics, etc. They could inspire hobbies and could be one of the best gifts your recipient has ever received.

Luxury food items - High quality wine, olive oil, tea, coffee, and chocolate make great gifts. Any high-quality local store will have people who can suggest these items if you personally can't vouch for a brand.

#### Less inspired but very useful

Starbucks gift cards are extremely useful and they will even sell you the envelope and card for no additional money than you load the gift card for. Often times, the card can be used several times and the person will remember you every time they use it.

Uber gift cards can be delivered digitally on a day of your choosing. This is a great gift for people who can use it as an alternative to a public transit commute or anyone who needs a sober ride home.

Buying something from someone's Amazon Wish List. People never think to do this but often times it's what a recipient wants. It's a gift that shows you're selflessly giving them something they know they want.

Amazon gift cards are extremely versatile if your recipient doesn't have a Wish List set up. It ensures that the money won't go unused in a savings account if you were to give cash.


## Be a great gifter!

Be sure to create a gift journal and gift spreadsheet for the coming year and I promise you that it will be indispensable. You'll find gift giving more enjoyable and fulfilling, even if you're broke after it's all over. 